---
title: SCIP练习题1.33
author: Neal
keywords:
  - SICP
date: 2018-12-03 21:01:30
categories:
  - SICP
tags:
  - SICP
  - Racket
  - Scheme
  - Lisp
mathjax: true
---

## Exercise 1.33

You can obtain an even more general version of accumulate (Exercise 1.32) by introducing the notion of a filter on the terms to be combined. That is, combine only those terms derived from values in the range that satisfy a specified condition. The resulting filtered-accumulate abstraction takes the same arguments as accumulate, together with an additional predicate of one argument that specifies the filter. Write filtered-accumulate as a procedure. Show how to express the following using filtered-accumulate:

1. the sum of the squares of the prime numbers in the interval a to b (assuming that you have a prime? predicate already written)
2. the product of all the positive integers less than n that are relatively prime to n (i.e., all positive integers i < n such that GCD(i, n) = 1).

**Ans**
迭代:

```scheme
(define (filtered-accumulate filter combiner null-value term a next b)
    (define (filtered-result result a
        (if (filter a)
            (combiner result (term a))
            result)))
    (define (iter a result)
        (if (> a b)
            result
        (iter (next a) (filtered-result result a))))
    (iter a null-value))
```

递归:

```scheme
(define (filtered-accumulate filter combiner null-value term a next b)
    (define (filtered-term a
        (if (filter a)
            (term a)
            null-value)))
    (if (> a b)
        null-value
        (combiner (filtered-term a)
        (filtered-accumulate combiner null-value term (next a) next b))))
```

```scheme
(define (sum-of-primes-square a b)
    (filter-accumulate prime? + 0 square a inc b))
```

```scheme

(define (identity x) x)

(define (sum-of-positive-relative-prime n)
    (define (relatively-prime? a)
        (= (gcd a n) 1))
    (filter-accumulate relatively-prime? + 0 identity a inc b))
```
